#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Subsection
Automatic sentiment analysis
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We extract the sentiment of news articles using a lexicon based algorithm
 in the line of Taboada (2011).
 The software for the implementation is the qdap package (see Rinker, 2013)
 in the open Software project R (see R Core Team, 2013).
 Here, each word is compared to a lexicon of positive and negative words,
 such as “bad”, “detrimental” and “dangerous” (negative), respectively “good”,
 “beneficial” and “safe” (positive).
 Each of the words in the dictionary are attributed a value between -1 (negative
) and 1 (positive).
 Then, the sentiment is given by the sum of values found.
 The lexica in German language available are SentiWS (see Remus et al., 2010)
 and Sentistrength (Thelwall et al.
 2010).
 • Before the values are summed up, some refinement is implemented.
 First, negativity is accounted for by inverting the value of a sentiment
 word in the lexicon if it is preceded by a negator.
 The negator “no” inverts the originally positive value of “good”.
 Then, amplifiers like “very” and de-amplifiers like “less” are employed
 to increase or decrease the respective values.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
